All right, so let's go ahead
and have another discussion on
something really really interesting.
So let's just say we so far have seen
that we have a function, let's call
this one as simple function name.
We have a placeholder which
takes the parameter names and we
simply go like this and then
we have a simple pass here.
This is our function definition.
Now what's really interesting
that what do you pass
in here in this function?
Let's just say this is kind
of a mysterious box and all
the value you go ahead and simply
pass on into this place.
This is known as parameters.
We know this.
But what value can go
inside the parameter?
There are a lot of values
two can go into it.
Maybe you want to go ahead and pass
on just the true, or maybe
you want to go ahead and pass
on just the name just like this.
Or maybe you want to pass
on values in this format.
So there is a lot of thing
that can go inside this as
a parameter and what happens
to the original value?
This is also a piece
of question we should be answering.
So in this entire video we are going
to go through with different
ways of how things actually
goes and what happens when things
goes into this, whether
the original one changes or not.
What happens to this?
We'll just go ahead and figure
it out in this one.
Let's go ahead and create this.
I've already created a file
which is known as input params,
input parameters and I'll
show you one of the most basic
example of what happens.
So when you let just say decide
that hey, this is my chai
and and I go ahead and simply
say this is my ginger T
or ginger chai would be better.
And if I go ahead and define a method
that says preparechie and I go ahead
and take any parameter, this could
be order, this could be anything.
It's just a placeholder, hence
we call it as parameter.
And I go ahead and print this out
or maybe do some more operations
on it doesn't really matter.
I'll just say preparing then
a space and we'll just go
ahead and print the order.
Now depends on what value
you are passing on.
A lot of things might change
or might not change.
So in this case if I go ahead
and pass on the chai,
this is like I would just want
to read this value in this case.
This is a string and if you remember,
strings don't change really.
So you are just passing
on this value and that is it, that
is all that you are doing.
Of course if you go ahead
and Use globals and all of that.
That's different use case, but in
most of the cases it doesn't change
or it will never change the original
chai, it will always remain.
Like you can go ahead and do
manipulation up here.
Like we have added this
preparing chai and all of that.
But in true sense, if you go ahead
and print out this variable chai,
if you notice it here, if I go
ahead and print the variable chai
here, if you look at this closely,
we have actually appended this so
the function actually takes the
order and we have passed on a chai
but we have actually concatenated
this.
Now the preparing is
appending to this.
So does it change the original one?
No, no it doesn't.
It just reads the value.
That is the whole point.
I'll show you by running
this, don't you worry.
So if I go ahead and say I want
Python to run 09 still,
we have ginger chai, but things
actually do change when we
have different values to it.
So let's just say I'll remove this
example, I'll keep this example
as comments so that you can later
on come onto this and see this.
Now let's just say we have
again an example of chai,
but this time I go ahead and say
the values are 1, 2 and 3.
Now remember this is a list
and list can be mutated.
So your whole idea about what
we studied about mutated,
immutable, mutable, this
will come handy in here.
Let's just say we have a simple
function which says
I will edit chai and all it does,
it takes the input of cup.
How many cups are there?
And this is array, we are
expecting an array here.
In this I will change the first value
to be something else, maybe
40, two, whatever,
it's just an arbitrary number.
And then I go ahead and call
the edit chai and notice I am
passing on this chai here.
What will happen to this chai?
Now previously we just passed
on, we did of course
performed an operation of adding it.
Now we are amending this.
So what will happen
to the original object?
So in this case you'll be surprised
to know and that's where
the mutable immutable comes
into, into the handy that.
Yes, now we have 1, 42 and 31.
So original object or original
property is being changed.
It's a mutable, the list.
So always remember, make sure that
you have gone through with this.
So this is nice, this is okay,
now let's go ahead and work
on with this more.
This idea can be extended
a little bit more.
We do have two types of arguments
that we can pass on in here.
The first you are going
to hear about is the args.
Yes, this is a proper name.
For this one is actually known
for positional ingredient,
positional parameters.
And you will hear another one
which is denoted by an asterisk.
And then you simply say kwargs.
This is keyword args.
Remember I told you.
Arguments.
There is one thing
known as parameters.
One is argument.
So this here is argument.
This one, when you are defining
the function, this is parameter.
Because it can have any value.
It can be cup as a list.
It can be anything or
any kind of a list.
So that's why we call
it as parameter.
But on the other hand,
this is our, sorry.
This one is parameter
and this is our args.
Arguments.
Based on this, I want
to show you something really,
really interesting.
Let's just say we have a,
method which says makechai.
And in this you expect
that I'll pass you a tea.
I.
I'll pass you a milk.
These are just variable name.
It can be anything.
And I'll pass you sugar,
not cigar sugar.
And there we go.
And I simply just print them out.
I don't do anything else.
So I'll just go ahead and say
this is my T, this is my milk,
and this is what else we have?
Sugar.
There we go.
It does nothing.
Now, interestingly, I can just
go ahead and say make chai.
And I have two ways of doing this.
I can just go ahead and say I want
a chai from a very beautiful place
in India, which is Darjeeling.
It's very beautiful.
And I will say milk.
I'll say yes.
And for the sugar I'll say
I'll definitely not say no.
But I'll say low.
This is something
known as, positional.
Positional.
Because I know the position of it.
So I know exactly that the Darjeeling
will go inside the T.
The yes will go into the milk
and the sugar is going to go.
This sometime can be confusing.
So another way of handling
this is known as keywords.
So how can we do this?
As soon as you put up the make
chai, you will see you
have some parameters here.
So I can just go ahead
and use this equal sign.
Notice this tea equals.
And then I'll just go
ahead and say green.
This makes sure that order
doesn't really matter.
But my value is going exactly.
So I'll swap the value of now sugar.
So first I'll pass on the sugar.
I know exactly what I'm saying.
So I'll just go ahead and say medium.
And then we have milk.
And the milk will be.
Let's, just say no.
I actually don't prefer milk T.
But this whole syntax is known as
keywords, and whenever you define
the function automatically.
This is available to you
and should be basic.
I shouldn't be printing this
out, but you get the idea.
It's green.
It says no, it says medium,
although we have swapped
the value, but it says green.
No, and medium.
This is where I have to keep
in mind that, hey, in what
order they are being passed on.
So based on this, we can
actually design another method
which uses, this args and kwargs,
or keyword arguments.
And I'll show you what
does it mean by that?
Really?
Truly not the theoretical
aspect, but impractical.
Let's just say we have
a special, chai.
I know a lot of chai these days.
So let's just say we put
up an asterisk here.
This asterisk is a part of syntax.
I will just go ahead
and say ingredients.
Hope I wrote that correct.
And I will also use asterisk.
Asterisk.
Yes.
This is again a syntax.
And I will say extras.
All right, so what do I mean by that?
What's the importance of this?
1 * and 2, *.
I'm not giving, T, milk like that.
I'm just saying ingredients.
And this is a variable name.
This is just a placeholder.
It can be anything.
I just want to print what happens
when all of this is written
in this format with the asterisk.
So I'll just go ahead
and say ingredients.
Hope I wrote that correct.
And second time, I'll
not take a chance.
I'll just copy this ingredients.
Because this is what I want to print.
And then second time,
we'll just say extras.
Copy this with a capital
E and this will be extra.
So what happens and how
does this work?
The way to learn this is
by seeing an practical
implementation for this one.
So let's just say if I go ahead
and call the special chai.
Now that you have seen how positional
works, how keyword works,
this is actually a mix of both.
So here is the interesting part.
Let's just say if I go
ahead and say, cinnamon.
Cinnamon.
And I go ahead and say another
one, which is cardamom.
And then I go ahead and say that
I want to use a sweetener.
There we go.
Very tough.
I will use Sweetener as honey
and will I use foam?
I don't know who uses foam,
but anyways foam will be yes.
So I hope you got a hint
of what we are trying to do.
Let me make it on the same line.
Notice here some
of the parameters don't have a name.
Some of them do have a name.
And you got that.
This is.
And this is exactly there.
We got args and we got kwargs
arguments and key value arguments
or also known as keyword arguments.
Whatever you want to call
them doesn't really matter.
But what's interesting here is
if I go ahead and run this
now, you're going to see that
ingredients gets a tuple
of all the values that we have.
So this is what the asterisk.
I didn't say that I'm expecting
one, two, whatever is
coming up without any name.
This is where we are getting.
So all the tuples are
going to come in.
But this is where you actually
says that, hey, I'm expecting
that you will provide me
the name of this value.
And this is exactly what we got.
Key value.
So.
So this is a dictionary and as
long as you understand
and know the data type, you can
do magic in programming.
Notice here, sweetener is
honey and the foam is.
Yes, and this is all it is.
I know a lot of people,
do a whole lot of drama with these
kinds of things, but I don't.
I prefer to show you
practically what it means.
And I have seen people spending
like 30 minutes, 1 hour
on the args and kw args.
No, it's not that difficult if you
don't get the values or the names.
If you don't provide the names, hey,
this will go into just one asterisk.
I can call this as
orgs as well, no problem.
Hey, feel free to call it args.
Feel free to call it as ingredients.
This one usually people
call it as kaw.
Orgs.
Hey, call it kwargs, call it
as extras, whatever you wish.
It's just a placeholder name.
The foundation of programming
should be strong.
There's one more thing I would like
to discuss here, which is also
production kind of a thing.
So sometimes let's just say
I have a simple value here.
I'll just go ahead and say chioders
and you can actually go
ahead and provide default values
to all these things.
So let's just say user
doesn't provide anything.
I still want to have a value,
so there is nothing which stops me
to provide a value just like this.
It is totally, totally okay.
But here's interesting part
if I go ahead and provide a value
of empty array which is mutable,
that means it can be changed.
Let's just see what happens.
When I go ahead and say order it
has a property of appendix because
it's an array and I can go ahead
and add a masala chai to this one.
That's it, that's all
what we are doing.
And now we are printing.
Come on, write that print
and I want to print whatever
the value of the order is.
Now here's the interesting part.
Let me show you the most
interesting and gotchas
of programming in Python.
We want to run this chai order.
I run it, but I go ahead
and accidentally run it twice.
Hey, this is interesting
what will happen when I
accidentally run it twice.
Because you have appended
the orders is going to append
in a very interesting way.
Notice here it says masala masala.
So be very very careful
for the default trap because this
is known as default traps.
So default has trapped you.
If you have the default value you
have nothing inside it and you have
tried to append so this whenever you
are going to run it second time
because first time it has already
done this.
We have seen actually
this kind of error.
So it has actually bite us here.
Now what we can do,
in this case this can be actually
made a little bit easier.
So I'll just go ahead and first
make a copy of this and we'll show
you that instead of putting an empty
value up here, you can actually
make your life little easier.
I'll just go ahead and comment
this so that you can have it.
Instead of putting the empty array,
what you can do is make your
code little bit secure or safe.
I can just say none.
So by default it's not empty
array, it is absolutely no value.
Here it is all none.
I don't want to append it like this.
I only want to append it
in certain cases only if
the value is being provided
to me or something like that.
So we are going to just go
ahead and remove this
and instead this I'll show you
a nice way of writing this.
If the order that is being provided
is none, notice here we are not
providing any value and in this case
we are not providing any value.
So you shouldn't be appending
or something like this.
If you provide me a value then only
the order append whatever value
is coming in here should be there.
So in this case I can just
go ahead and use if clause
and say if order is not in.
If Order is none.
I'll just go ahead and say
order is equals to empty array.
Now, no matter how many times I'm
calling this, this will always
remain because what I'm technically
passing here is actually none.
Whenever you are passing nothing,
that means you're passing on none.
It's something that we
encountered, in here.
So again, notice here we
are not printing anything.
Obviously we are not
printing anything.
But if you want to print this as well
that, hey, what's the value of this?
We can just go ahead
and quickly do this.
Print the order just like this.
And I hope you got the idea of
this is now both the time it's
empty because you are not
passing anything and you can
still use the same logic order,
append whatever the value is
coming in.
You can also check whether
the length is more than zero.
And then.
You got the idea.
This was just a small incident
which I wanted to talk about.
It's not something that, hey,
just always keep in mind
you will eventually learn with them
as you will write more code.
But that's all.
That's all I wanted to talk
about this hope you've enjoyed
these, fun little videos.
Please do rate us.
And that is it.
Let's catch up in next video.